## The need for dynamic memory allocation
C++ supports three basic types of memory allocation:
1. **Static Memory Allocation:** Occurs to *static* and *global* variables. Memory is allocated once when the program is ran and persists throughout the life of the program.
2. **Automatic Memory Allocation:** Occurs to function parameters and local variables. Memory is allocated when the block is entered and freed when the block is exited.
3. **Dynamic Memory Allocation:** 

Static memory allocation and automatic memory allocation have two things in common:
1. The size of the variable must be known at compile time.
2. Memory allocation and deallocation occurs automatically.

**Dynamic Memory Allocation:** Way for a program to request memory from the operating system when needed. Memory comes from a larger pool managed by the operating system. 

## Dynamically allocating single variables
A pointer containing the address of the memory allocated is returned.
```cpp
int* ptr{ new int }; // dynamically allocate an integer and assign the address to ptr so we can access it later
```
Can perform indirection through the pointer to access the memory.
```cpp
*ptr = 7; // assign value of 7 to allocated memory	
```
## How does dynamic memory allocation work
A computer has memory that is available for applications to use. When an application is ran, the operating system loads the application into memory. The memory used by an application is divided into different areas that serve different purposes. 

When memory is dynamically allocated, the user is asking the operating system to reserve memory for the program to use. If the memory can be allocated, the operating system returns the address of the memory to the application. The application can use the memory afterwards. 

When an application is finished with the memory, the application can return the memory to the operating system.

## Initializing dynamically allocated variables
Can initialize via *direct initialization* or *uniform initialization*.
```cpp
int* ptr1{ new int (5) }; // use direct initialization
int* ptr2{ new int { 6 } }; // use uniform initialization
```

## Deleting single variables
```cpp
// assume ptr has previously been allocated with operator new
delete ptr; // return the memory pointed to by ptr to the operating system
ptr = nullptr; // set ptr to be a null pointer
```

## What does it mean to delete memory
The delete operator returns the memory being pointed to to the operating system.

The pointer can be assigned a new value as long as the pointer is still in scope.

## Dangling pointers
**Dangling Pointer:** Pointer pointing to deallocated memory. 

Indirectiong through or deleting a dangling pointer leads to undefined behavior.
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    int* ptr{ new int }; // dynamically allocate an integer
    *ptr = 7; // put a value in that memory location

    delete ptr; // return the memory to the operating system.  ptr is now a dangling pointer.

    std::cout << *ptr; // Indirection through a dangling pointer will cause undefined behavior
    delete ptr; // trying to deallocate the memory again will also lead to undefined behavior.

    return 0;
}
```
Deallocating memory can create multiple dangling pointers.
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    int* ptr{ new int{} }; // dynamically allocate an integer
    int* otherPtr{ ptr }; // otherPtr is now pointed at that same memory location

    delete ptr; // return the memory to the operating system.  ptr and otherPtr are now dangling pointers.
    ptr = nullptr; // ptr is now a nullptr

    // however, otherPtr is still a dangling pointer!

    return 0;
}
```

## Best practice
Avoid having multiple pointers pointing to the same piece of dynamic memory. 

When using pointers pointing to the same piece of dynamic memory, make a pointer "own" the memory (responsible for deleting) and the other pointer(s) as read-only pointers.

Set pointers that are not going out of scope immediately to *nullptr*.

## Operator new can fail
The operating system may not have the memory to grant the request with.

By default, when memory fails to be granted, a *bad_alloc* exception is thrown.

Can tell the compielr to return a null pointer if memory cannot be allocated.
```cpp
int* value { new (std::nothrow) int }; // value will be set to a null pointer if the integer allocation fails
```

## Null pointers and dynamic memory allocation
In the context of dynamic memory allocation, a null pointer describes "no memory has been allocated to the pointer". 

```cpp
// If ptr isn't already allocated, allocate it
if (!ptr)
    ptr = new int;
```

Can delete pointer without worrying about deallocating already-deallocated memory.
```cpp
delete ptr;
```
## Memory leaks
Dynamically allocated memory statys allocated until the memory is explicitly deallocated or when the program ends.

**Memory Leak:** Occurs when a program loses the address of dynamically allocated memory before giving the memory back to the operating system. The program cannot delete the dynamically allocated memory because it does not know the address of the memory. The operating cannot use the memory because the memory is allocated.

Memory leak can occur when a pointer goes out of scope.

Memory leaks can occur when a pointer holding the address of dynamically allocated memory is assigned another value.
```
int value = 5;
int* ptr{ new int{} }; // allocate memory
ptr = &value; // old address lost, memory leak results
```
Memory leaks can occur when a pointer holding the address of dynamically allocated memory is allocated new memory.
```cpp
int* ptr{ new int{} };
ptr = new int{}; // old address lost, memory leak results
```