## Data memebrs are not initialized by default
Data members are not initialized by default.

## What is an aggregate
**Aggregate Data Type (Aggregate):** Type that contains multiple data members.

C++'s aggregate definition:
- Is a class type/array type.
- Has no private or protected non-static data members.
- Has no user-declared or inherited constructors.
- Has no base class.
- Has no virtual member functions.

## Aggregate initialization of a struct
**Aggregate Initialization:** Allows direct initialization of members of an aggregate. An initializer list is provided as an initializer.

**Initialization List:** List of comma-separated initialization values.

There are three forms of aggregate initialization:
- List initialization using braced list.
````cpp
Employee frank = { 1, 32, 60000.0 }; // copy-list initialization using braced list
````
- Copy-list initialization using braced list.
````cpp
Employee robert ( 3, 45, 62500.0 );  // direct initialization using parenthesized list 
````
- Direct initialization using parenthesized list.
````cpp
Employee joe { 2, 28, 45000.0 };     // list initialization using braced list (preferred)
````

## Missing initializers in an initializer list
When an aggregate is initialized but the number of initialization values is fewer than the number of members, all the remaining members are value-initialized.

```cpp
Employee joe {}; // value-initialize all members
```

## Const structs
Variables of a struct type can be const. Const struct type variables must be initialized.

## Designated initializers
Initializers are applied to members in order of declaration.
```cpp
struct Foo
{
    int a {};
    int c {};
};

int main()
{
    Foo f { 1, 3 }; // f.a = 1, f.c = 3
}
```

**Designated Initializers:** To explicitly define which initialization values map to which member. 

The members must be initialized in the same order in which the members were declared in the struct.
```cpp
struct Foo
{
    int a{ };
    int b{ };
    int c{ };
};

int main()
{
    Foo f1{ .a{ 1 }, .c{ 3 } }; // ok: f1.a = 1, f1.b = 0 (value initialized), f1.c = 3
    Foo f2{ .b{ 2 }, .a{ 1 } }; // error: initialization order does not match order of declaration in struct

    return 0;
}
```

## Assignment with an initializer list
Can assign values to a struct using an initializer list.
```cpp
struct Employee
{
    int id {};
    int age {};
    double wage {};
};

int main()
{
    Employee joe { 1, 32, 60000.0 };
    joe = { joe.id, 33, 66000.0 }; //To not change a value, must provide the current value in the initializer list (joe.id).

    return 0;
}
```

## Assignment with designated initializers
Any member that are not designated are assigned the value that is used in value initialization.
```cpp
struct Employee
{
    int id {};
    int age {};
    double wage {};
};

int main()
{
    Employee joe { 1, 32, 60000.0 };
    joe = { .id = joe.id, .age = 33, .wage = 66000.0 }; // Joe had a birthday and got a raise

    return 0;
}
```