**Non-Static Member Initialization:** Providing a default initialization value for a member.

**Default Member Initializer:** Initialization value given with non-static member initialization.

```cpp
struct Something
{
    int x;       // no initialization value (bad)
    int y {};    // value-initialized by default
    int z { 2 }; // explicit default value
};

int main()
{
    Something s1; // s1.x is uninitialized, s1.y is 0, and s1.z is 2

    return 0;
}
```

## Explicit initialization values take precedence over default values
```cpp
struct Something
{
    int x;       // no default initialization value (bad)
    int y {};    // value-initialized by default
    int z { 2 }; // explicit default value
};

int main()
{
    Something s2 { 5, 6, 7 }; // use explicit initializers for s2.x, s2.y, and s2.z (no default values are used)

    return 0;
}
```

## Missing initializers in an initializer list when default value exist
```cpp
struct Something
{
    int x;       // no default initialization value (bad)
    int y {};    // value-initialized by default
    int z { 2 }; // explicit default value
};

int main()
{
    Something s3 {}; // value initialize s3.x, use default values for s3.y and s3.z

    return 0;
}
```

## Always provide default values for members
Providing default values for members avoids the possibility of unitialized members. Members are initialized with a value regardless of the initialization method.

## Default initialization vs value initialization for aggregates
Value initialization is safer because members with no default values are value initialized. 

## Recapping the initialization possibilities
If an aggregate is defined with an initialization list:

-   If an explicit initialization value exists, that explicit value is used.
-   If an initializer is missing and a default member initializer exists, the default is used.
-   If an initializer is missing and no default member initializer exists, value initialization occurs.

If an aggregate is defined with no initialization list:

-   If a default member initalizer exists, the default is used.i
-   If no default member initializer exists, the member remains uninitialized.

Members are always initialized in the order of declaration.