In object-oriented programming, it is common to want typees to hold data and provide functions that work with the data. 

The **class** keyword defines a new program-defined type called a class. 

Classes have private member accessability by default. Structs have public member accessibility by default.
```cpp
struct DateStruct
{
    int year {};
    int month {};
    int day {};
};

class DateClass
{
public:
    int m_year {};
    int m_month {};
    int m_day {};
};
```

## Member functions
Functions defined inside of a class are called **member functions (methods)**. 

Member functions can be defined inside or outside the class definition. 

Members of a class are accessed using the *member selection operator (.)*.

All member function calls must be associated with an object of the class. 

With normal non-member functions, a function cannot call another function that is defined below it (without a forward declaration).
```cpp
void x()
{
// You can't call y() from here unless the compiler has already seen a forward declaration for y()
}

void y()
{
}
```

With member functions, the restriction does not apply.
```cpp
class foo
{
public:
     void x() { y(); } // okay to call y() here, even though y() isn't defined until later in this class
     void y() { };
};
```

## Member types
Classes can have **member types (nested types)**.

In this context, the class name acts as a namespace for the nested type. From outside the class, the nested type can be accessed via `OuterClass::InnerClass`.

Nested types cannot be forward declared. 

Nested types should only be used when the nested type is used exclusively within the outer class. 

## A note about structs in C++
Structs and classes have a unified rule set. 

Many developers believe that, when designing structs, Stroustrup made the wrong decision of unifying their rule sets because it can lead to dangerous assumptions. For example, it is fair to expect a class to clean up after itself while it is not fair to assume that a struct will clean up after itself. 

###### Best Practice
Use the struct keyword for data-only structures. Use the class keyword for objects that have both data and functions.

## Quiz time
### Question 1
#### Question
a)
Create a class called IntPair that holds two integers. This class should have two member variables to hold the integers. You should also create two member functions: one named “set” that will let you assign values to the integers, and one named “print” that will print the values of the variables.

The following main function should execute:
```cpp
int main()
{
	IntPair p1;
	p1.set(1, 1); // set p1 values to (1, 1)

	IntPair p2 { 2, 2 }; // initialize p2 values to (2, 2)

	p1.print();
	p2.print();

	return 0;
}
```
and produce the output:
```
Pair(1, 1)
Pair(2, 2)
```
b) 
Why should we use a class for IntPair instead of a struct?
Because IntPair contains member functions which go against the common (but allowed) understanding of a struct (a data structure/container).
#### Answer 
```cpp
#include <iostream>

class IntPair
{
public:
	int m_p1{};
	int m_p2{};
private:
	void set(int p1, int p2)
	{
		m_p1 = p1;
		m_p2 = p2;
	}
	
	void print()
	{
		std::cout << "Pair(" << m_p1 << ", " << m_p2 << ")\n";
	}
};
```