Expressions can evaluate to objects or function.

## The properties of an expression
Expressions have two properties:
1. A type.
2. A value category.

## The type of an expression
The type of an expression is the type of the object, value, or function that results from evaluating the expression.

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    auto v1 { 12 / 4 }; // int / int => int
    auto v2 { 12.0 / 4 }; // double / int => double

    return 0;
}
```

The type of an expression must be determinable at compile-time. The value of an expression can be determined at compile-time or runtime.

## The value category of an expression
**Value Category:** Indicates whether an expression resolves to a value, a function, or an object.

There are five possible value categories:
- l-value.
- r-value.
- g-value.
- pr-value.
- x-value.

## L-value and r-value expressions
**L-Value:** Expression that evaluates to an identifiable object or function or bit field.

An entity (such as an object or function) that has an identity can be differentiated from other similar entities (typically by comparing the addresses of the entity).

Entities with identities can be accessed via an identifier, reference, or pointer, and typically have a lifetime longer than a single expression or statement.

Lvalues have two subtypes:
1. **Modifiable Value:** Lvalue whose value can be modified.
2. **Unmodifiable Value:** Lvalue whose value cannot be modified (const or constexpr).

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    int x{};
    const double d{};

    int y { x }; // x is a modifiable lvalue expression
    const double e { d }; // d is a non-modifiable lvalue expression

    return 0;
}
```

**R-Value:** Expression that is not an l-value. Rvalues aren’t identifiable (meaning they have to be used immediately), and only exist within the scope of the expression in which they are used.

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int return5()
{
    return 5;
}

int main()
{
    int x{ 5 }; // 5 is an rvalue expression
    const double d{ 1.2 }; // 1.2 is an rvalue expression

    int y { x }; // x is a modifiable lvalue expression
    const double e { d }; // d is a non-modifiable lvalue expression
    int z { return5() }; // return5() is an rvalue expression (since the result is returned by value)

    int w { x + 1 }; // x + 1 is an rvalue expression
    int q { static_cast<int>(d) }; // the result of static casting d to an int is an rvalue expression

    return 0;
}

```

An assignment operation requires the left operand of the assignment to be a modifiable lvalue expression, and the right operand to be an rvalue expression. 

```cpp
int main()
{
    int x{};

    x = 5; // valid: we can assign 5 to x
    5 = x; // error: can not assign value of x to literal value 5

    return 0;
}
```

## L-value to r-value conversion
L-values implicitly convert to r-values.
```cpp
int main()
{
    int x{ 1 };
    int y{ 2 };

    x = y;

    return 0;
}
```

