## Some objects are expensive to copy
Class types are usually expensive to copy.

Avoid making unnecessary copies of objects that are expensive to copy, especially when the copies are destroyed almost immediately.

## Pass by reference
**Pass By Reference:** Declaring a function parameter as a reference type. When the function is called, no copy of the argument is made.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <string>

void printValue(std::string& y) // type changed to std::string&
{
    std::cout << y << '\n';
} // y is destroyed here

int main()
{
    std::string x { "Hello, world!" };

    printValue(x); // x is now passed by reference into reference parameter y (inexpensive)

    return 0;
}
```

## Pass by reference allows the user to change the value of an argument
```cpp
#include <iostream>

void addOne(int& y) // y is bound to the actual object x
{
    ++y; // this modifies the actual object x
}

int main()
{
    int x { 5 };

    std::cout << "value = " << x << '\n';

    addOne(x);

    std::cout << "value = " << x << '\n'; // x has been modified

    return 0;
}
```

## Pass by const reference
Passing by const reference offers the same primary benefit as pass by reference (avoiding making a copy of the argument), while also guaranteeing that the function can _not_ change the value being referenced.

## Mixing pass by value and pass by reference
A function with multiple parameters can determine whether each parameter is passed by value or passed by reference individually.

## When to pass by reference
Pass fundamental types by value, and class (or struct) types by const reference.


## The cost of pass by value vs pass by reference
The cost of copying an object is generally proportional to two things:
1. The size of the object. Objects that use more memory take more time to copy.
2. Any additional setup costs. Some class types do additional setup when they are instantiated. These setup costs must be paid each time an object is copied.

Binding a reference to an object is always fast (about the same speed as copying a fundamental type).

Accessing an object through a reference is slightly more expensive than accessing an object through a normal variable identifier. The program must first access the reference to determine which object is being referenced, and only then can it go to that memory address for that object and access the value.