## How sorting works
Sorting is usually performed by repeatedly comparing pairs of array elements and swapping them if they meet a criteria.

The order in which elements are compared differ depending on which sorting algorithm is used.

## Selection sort
Selection sort performs the following steps to sort an array from smallest to largest:
1. Starting at index 0, search the entire array to find the smallest value.
2. Swap the smallest value found in the array with the value at index 0.
3. Repeat steps 1 & 2 from the next index.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <iterator>
#include <utility>

int main()
{
	int array[]{ 30, 50, 20, 10, 40 };
	constexpr int length{ static_cast<int>(std::size(array)) };

	// Step through each element of the array
	// (except the last one, which will already be sorted by the time we get there)
	for (int startIndex{ 0 }; startIndex < length - 1; ++startIndex)
	{
		// smallestIndex is the index of the smallest element we’ve encountered this iteration
		// Start by assuming the smallest element is the first element of this iteration
		int smallestIndex{ startIndex };

		// Then look for a smaller element in the rest of the array
		for (int currentIndex{ startIndex + 1 }; currentIndex < length; ++currentIndex)
		{
			// If we've found an element that is smaller than our previously found smallest
			if (array[currentIndex] < array[smallestIndex])
				// then keep track of it
				smallestIndex = currentIndex;
		}

		// smallestIndex is now the smallest element in the remaining array
                // swap our start element with our smallest element (this sorts it into the correct place)
		std::swap(array[startIndex], array[smallestIndex]);
	}

	// Now that the whole array is sorted, print our sorted array as proof it works
	for (int index{ 0 }; index < length; ++index)
		std::cout << array[index] << ' ';

	std::cout << '\n';

	return 0;
}
```

## std::sort
The C++ standard library includes a sorting function *std::sort*.

By default, *std::sort* sorts in ascending order.

## Quiz time
### Question 1
#### Question
Manually show how selection sort works on the following array: { 30, 60, 20, 50, 40, 10 }. Show the array after each swap that takes place.
#### Answer
30 60 20 50 40 10
**10** 60 20 50 40 **30**
10 **20** **60** 50 40 30
10 20 **30** 50 40 **60***
10 20 30 **40** **50** 60
10 20 30 40 **50** 60
10 20 30 40 50 **60**
### Question 2
#### Question
Rewrite the selection sort code above to sort in descending order (largest numbers first). Although this may seem complex, it is actually surprisingly simple.
#### Answer
Change:
```cpp
if (array[currentIndex] < array[smallestIndex])
```
To:
```cpp
if (array[currentIndex] > array[largestIndex])
```
### Question 3
#### Question
This one is going to be difficult, so put your game face on.

Another simple sort is called “bubble sort”. Bubble sort works by comparing adjacent pairs of elements, and swapping them if the criteria is met, so that elements “bubble” to the end of the array. Although there are quite a few ways to optimize bubble sort, in this quiz we’ll stick with the unoptimized version here because it’s simplest.

Unoptimized bubble sort performs the following steps to sort an array from smallest to largest:  
A) Compare array element 0 with array element 1. If element 0 is larger, swap it with element 1.  
B) Now do the same for elements 1 and 2, and every subsequent pair of elements until you hit the end of the array. At this point, the last element in the array will be sorted.  
C) Repeat the first two steps again until the array is sorted.

Write code that bubble sorts the following array according to the rules above:
```cpp
int array[]{ 6, 3, 2, 9, 7, 1, 5, 4, 8 };
```
Print the sorted array elements at the end of your program.

Hint: If we’re able to sort one element per iteration, that means we’ll need to iterate roughly as many times as there are numbers in our array to guarantee that the whole array is sorted.  
Hint: When comparing pairs of elements, be careful of your array’s range.
#### Answer
### Question 4
#### Question
Add two optimizations to the bubble sort algorithm you wrote in the previous quiz question:

-   Notice how with each iteration of bubble sort, the biggest number remaining gets bubbled to the end of the array. After the first iteration, the last array element is sorted. After the second iteration, the second to last array element is sorted too. And so on… With each iteration, we don’t need to recheck elements that we know are already sorted. Change your loop to not re-check elements that are already sorted.
-   If we go through an entire iteration without doing a swap, then we know the array must already be sorted. Implement a check to determine whether any swaps were made this iteration, and if not, terminate the loop early. If the loop was terminated early, print on which iteration the sort ended early.

Your output should match this:
```
Early termination on iteration 6
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
```
#### Answer