*std::string* guarantees that:
- The string data is valid as long a the string object is alive. The string data is cleaned up when the string object dies.
- The string's value can only be modified by the string object.
- The string's value can be modified without affecting other objects (for non-const strings).

By making a copy of the initialization string, the *std::string* object ensures that the value and lifetime of the string data is independent from other objects.

## Introducing std::string_view
*std::string_view* does not create its own copy of the initialization string. The *std::string_view* provides a view of a string that is defined elsewhere.

Changes to the underlying string are reflected in the *std::string_view*.
```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <string_view>

int main()
{
  char arr[]{ "Gold" };
  std::string_view str{ arr };

  std::cout << str << '\n'; // Gold

  // Change 'd' to 'f' in arr
  arr[3] = 'f';

  std::cout << str << '\n'; // Golf

  return 0;
}
```

###### Best practice
Prefer *std::string_view* when read-only access to a string is needed.
If it is not guaranteed that the underlying string will be alive during the entire lifetime of the *std::string_view*, a *std::string* is preferred.

## View modification functions
*std::string_view* contains functions to manipulate the *view* of the underlying string. 

These functions allow changes to the view without modifying the underlying string.

## std::string_view works with non-null-terminated strings
*std::string_view* does not use null terminators to mark the end of a string.

*std::string_view* knows the end of a string by keeping track of its length.

## Converting a std::string_view to a C-style string
```cpp
#include <cstring>
#include <iostream>
#include <string>
#include <string_view>

int main()
{
  std::string_view sv{ "balloon" };

  sv.remove_suffix(3);

  // Create a std::string from the std::string_view
  std::string str{ sv };

  // Get the null-terminated C-style string.
  auto szNullTerminated{ str.c_str() };

  // Pass the null-terminated string to the function that we want to use.
  std::cout << str << " has " << std::strlen(szNullTerminated) << " letter(s)\n";

  return 0;
}
```

## Passing strings by std::string& or std::string_view
###### Best practice
Prefer passing strings using *std::string_view* by value instead of *const std::string\&*.

Use *const std::string\&* when the function that takes a string parameter calls other functions that require C-style strings or *std::string* parameters.

## Ownership issues

A *std::string_view*\'s lifetime is independent of the lifetime of the viewed string.

*std::string_view* cannot create any strings of its own.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <string>
#include <string_view>

std::string_view askForName()
{
  std::cout << "What's your name?\n";

  // Use a std::string, because std::cin needs to modify it.
  std::string name{};
  std::cin >> name;

  // We're switching to std::string_view for demonstrative purposes only.
  // If you already have a std::string, there's no reason to switch to
  // a std::string_view.
  std::string_view view{ name };

  std::cout << "Hello " << view << '\n';

  return view;
} // name dies, and so does the string that name created.

int main()
{
  std::string_view view{ askForName() };

  // view is observing a string that already died.
  std::cout << "Your name is " << view << '\n'; // Undefined behavior

  return 0;
}
```
## The data() function and non-null-terminated strings
The string viewed by a *std::string_view* can be accessed using the *data()* function.

The *data()* function returns a C-style string.

The underlying string should only be accessed when the underlying string is null-terminated.

###### Warning 
Only use *std::string_view::data()* when the *std::string_view*'s view has not been modified and the underlying string is null-terminated.

Using *std::string_view::data()* on a non-null-terminated string can cause undefined behavior.

Otherwise, convert the *std::string_view* to a *std::string* and call *std::string::data()* which is guaranteed to be null-terminated.

