When overloading operators as member functions:
- The overloaded operator must be added as a member function of the left operand.
- The left operand becomes the implicit \*this object.
- All other operands become function parameters.

```cpp
#include <iostream>

class Cents
{
private:
    int m_cents {};

public:
    Cents(int cents)
        : m_cents { cents } { }

    // Overload Cents + int
    Cents operator+ (int value);

    int getCents() const { return m_cents; }
};

// note: this function is a member function!
// the cents parameter in the friend version is now the implicit *this parameter
Cents Cents::operator+ (int value)
{
    return Cents { m_cents + value };
}

int main()
{
	Cents cents1 { 6 };
	Cents cents2 { cents1 + 2 };
	std::cout << "I have " << cents2.getCents() << " cents.\n";

	return 0;
}
```
## Not everything can be overloaded as a friend function
The assignment (=), subscript (\[]), functiopn call (()), and member selection (->) operators must be overloaded as member functions.

## Not everything can be overloaded as a member function
The << operator and >> operator cannot be overloaded using member functions because the operators require the left operand to be of type std::ostream and std::istream, respectively, operators overloaded using member functions because the overloaded operator must be added as a member of the left operand.

Generally, member operator overload cannot be used when the left operand is either not a class (e.g.: int) or is not call that the user can modify (e.g.: std::ostream).

## When to use a normal, friend, or member function overload
When dealing with binary operators that do not modify the left operand (e.g.: operator+), the normal or friend function version are prefered because they work for all parameter types.

When dealing with binary operators that do modify the left operand (operator +=), the member function version is preferred. The leftmost operand will always be a class type and having the object being modified become the one pointed by \*this is natural. 

Unary operators are overloaded as member functions since the member version has no parameters.

The following rules of thumb can help you determine which form is best for a given situation:
- When overloading assignment (=), subscript (\[]), function call (()), or member selection (->), do so as a member function.
- When overloading a unary operator, do so as a member function.
- When overloading a binary operator that does not modify its left operand (e.g. operator+), do so as a normal function (preferred) or friend function.
- When overloading a binary operator that modifies its left operand, but you can’t add members to the class definition of the left operand (e.g. operator<<, which has a left operand of type ostream), do so as a normal function (preferred) or friend function.
- When overloading a binary operator that modifies its left operand (e.g. operator+=), and you can modify the definition of the left operand, do so as a member function.

