A **destructor** is a special kind of class member function that is executed when an object of the class is destroyed. 

Destructors are designed to help clean up a class.

When an object goes out of scope or a dynamically allocated object is explicitly deleted using the *delete* keyword, the class destructor is automatically called (if existing) to clean up before the object is removed from memory. 

## Destructor naming
Destructors have 3 naming rules:
1. The destructor must have the same name as the class, preceded by a tilde (~).
2. The destructor cannot take any arguments.
4. The destructor has no return type.

A class can only have 1 destructor.

Generally, a destructor should not be explicitly invoked because it is already implicitly invoked when the object is destroyed. 

A destructor can call other member functions because the object is not destroyed until after the destructor executes.


## Resource Acquisition Is Initialization (RAII)
RAII (Resource Acquisition Is Initialization) is a programming technique whereby resource use is tied to the lifetime of objects with automatic duration (e.g.: non-dynamically allocated objects). 

RAII is implemented via constructors and destructors. 

A resource is acquired in the object's constructor (can also be acquired after object creation). The resource is useable while the object is alive. The resource is released in the destructor when the object is destroyed.

The primary advantage of RAII is preventing resource leaks because all resources are cleaned up automatically.


## A warning about the std::exit() function
Invoking the std::exit() function will cause the program to terminate and no destructors will be called.

