## Implicit type conversion
**Type Conversion:** Process of converting a value from one type to another type.
**Implicit Type Conversion:** When the compiler does type conversion without the user explicitly asking for a type conversion.

## Type conversion produces a new value
Type conversion prdouces a new value ofthe target type from a value of a different type.

## Introduction to explicity tye conversion via the static_cast operator
**Explicit Type Conversion:** When the user explicitly tells the compiler to convert a value from one type to another type. The result of the conversion is the responsibility of the user. 

The *static_cast* operator is used to perform explicit type conversion.

```
static_cast<new_type>(expression)
```

## Quiz time
### Question 1
#### Question
Write a short program where the user is asked to enter a single character. Print the value of the character and its ASCII code, using `static_cast`.
The program’s output should match the following:
```
Enter a single character: a
You entered 'a', which has ASCII code 97.
```
#### Answer
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main() 
{
	std::cout << "Enter a single character: ";
	char c {};
	std::cin >> c;

	std::cout << "You entered '" << c << "which has ASCII code " << static_cast<int>(c) << ".\n";
	return 0;
}
```

### Question 2
#### Question
Modify the program you wrote for quiz #1 to use implicit type conversion instead of `static_cast`. How many different ways can you think of to do this?

Note: You should favor explicit conversions over implicit conversions, so don’t actually do this in real programs -- this is just to test your understanding of where implicit conversions can occur.
#### Answer
There are a few easy ways to do this.

First, we can create an `int` variable, and initialize it with our `char` value. This will do the implicit conversion on initialization.
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
	std::cout << "Enter a single character: ";
	char c{};
	std::cin >> c;

	int ascii{ c };
	std::cout << "You entered '" << c << "', which has ASCII code " << ascii << ".\n";

	return 0;
}
```

Alternatively, we can use a function to return the `char` value as an `int`. This will do the implicit conversion at the point of return.
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int charAsInt(char c)
{
	return c;
}

int main()
{
	std::cout << "Enter a single character: ";
	char c{};
	std::cin >> c;

	std::cout << "You entered '" << c << "', which has ASCII code " << charAsInt(c) << ".\n";

	return 0;
}
```

We can also use a function and have the implicit conversion happen at the point where the argument is copied into the function parameter:
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int getInt(int c)
{
	return c;
}

int main()
{
	std::cout << "Enter a single character: ";
	char c{};
	std::cin >> c;

	std::cout << "You entered '" << c << "', which has ASCII code " << getInt(c) << ".\n";

	return 0;
}
```

