## Constant expressions
**Constant expression:** Expression that can be evaluated at compile-time. All the values in the expression must be known at compile-time. All the operators and function calls must support compile-time evaluation.

When the compiler encounters a constant expression, it may evaluate the expression at compile-time, and then replace the constant expression with the result of the evaluation.

## Compile-time constants
**Compile-Time Constant:** Constant whose value is known at compile-time. 

Literals are a type of compile-time constant.

## Compile-time const
A const variable is a compile-time constants when its initializer is a constant expression.

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
	const int x { 3 };  // x is a compile-time const
	const int y { 4 };  // y is a compile-time const

	const int z { x + y }; // x + y is a compile-time expression

	std::cout << z << '\n';

	return 0;
}
```

## Runtime const
**Runtime Constants:** Constants whose initialization values are not known until runtime.

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int getNumber()
{
    std::cout << "Enter a number: ";
    int y{};
    std::cin >> y;

    return y;
}

int main()
{
    const int x{ 3 };           // x is a compile time constant

    const int y{ getNumber() }; // y is a runtime constant

    const int z{ x + y };       // x + y is a runtime expression
    std::cout << z << '\n';     // this is also a runtime expression

    return 0;
}
```

## The constexpr keyword
When using *const*, variables could end up as either a compile-time const or a runtime const, depending on whether the initializer is a compile-time expression or not.

**constexpr:** Can only be compile-time constant. 

If the initialization value of a *constexpr* variable is not a constant expression, the compiler will error.

###### Best practice
Any variable that should not be modifiable after initialization and whose initializer is known at compile-time should be declared as *constexpr*.  
Any variable that should not be modifiable after initialization and whose initializer is not known at compile-time should be declared as *const*.