## Fixed-width integers
**Fixed-Width Integers:** Guaranteed to be the same size on any architecture.

| Name          | Type            | Range                                                   | Notes                                       |
|---------------|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| std::int8_t   | 1 byte signed   | -128 to 127                                             | Treated like a signed char on many systems. |
| std::uint8_t  | 1 byte unsigned | 0 to 255                                                | Treated like a signed char on many systems. |
| std::int16_t  | 2 byte signed   | -32,768 to 32,767                                       |                                             |
| std::uint16_t | 2 byte unsigned | 0 to 65,535                                             |                                             |
| std::int32_t  | 4 byte signed   | -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647                         |                                             |
| std::uint32_t | 4 byte unsigned | 0 to 4,294,967,295                                      |                                             |
| std::int64_t  | 8 byte signed   | -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 |                                             |
| std::uint64_t | 8 byte unsigned | 0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615                         |                                             |

Fixed-width integers are not guaranteed to be defined on all architectures. Fixed-width integers exist on systems where there are fundamental types matching their widths and following a certain binary representation.

Fixed-width integers may be slower than a wider type on some architecture.

###### Warning

The 8-bit fixed-width integer types are often treated like chars instead of integer values (and this may vary per system). Prefer the 16-bit fixed integral types for most cases.

## Fast and least integers
Two alternative sets of integers that are guaranteed to be defined.

Fast types provide the fastest signed/unsigned integer type with a width of at least # bits.

Least types provide the smallest signed/unsigned integer type with a width of at least # bits.

Fast and least integers are unfamiliar to users which can lead to errors.

Fast and least integers can lead to memory wastage.

Fast and least integers can exhibit different behaviors on architectures that resolve to different sizes.

## Integral best practices

-   Prefer `int` when the size of the integer doesn’t matter (e.g. the number will always fit within the range of a 2-byte signed integer). For example, if you’re asking the user to enter their age, or counting from 1 to 10, it doesn’t matter whether int is 16 or 32 bits (the numbers will fit either way). This will cover the vast majority of the cases you’re likely to run across.
-   Prefer `std::int#_t` when storing a quantity that needs a guaranteed range.
-   Prefer `std::uint#_t` when doing bit manipulation or where well-defined wrap-around behavior is required.

Avoid the following when possible:

-   Unsigned types for holding quantities
-   The 8-bit fixed-width integer types
-   The fast and least fixed-width types
-   Any compiler-specific fixed-width integers -- for example, Visual Studio defines __int8, __int16, etc…

## What is std::size_t
**std::size_t:** Type that is returned by the [sizeof operator](4.3%20-%20Object%20sizes%20and%20the%20sizeof%20operator.md) (and other functions that return a size of length value). Defined as an unsigned integral type.  

std::size_t varies in size depending on the system. 

std::size_t is guaranteed to be unsigned and at least 16 bits. std::size_t is defined to be big enough to hold the size of the largest object creatable on a system.

