**Scientific Notation:** Shorthand for writing lengthy numbers in a concise manner. 

*significand* x 10^*exponent*.

Numbers in scientific notation are written with one digit before the decimal point and the rest of the digits afterward.

**Significant Digits:** Digits in the significant (part before the e).

**Precision:** Number of significant digits. The more digits in the significand, the more precise a number is.

## How to convert numbers to scientific notation

-   Your exponent starts at zero.
-   Slide the decimal so there is only one non-zero digit to the left of the decimal.
    -   Each place you slide the decimal to the left increases the exponent by 1.
    -   Each place you slide the decimal to the right decreases the exponent by 1.
-   Trim off any leading zeros (on the left end of the significand)
-   Trim off any trailing zeros (on the right end of the significand) only if the original number had no decimal point. We’re assuming they’re not significant unless otherwise specified.

## Precision and trailing zeros after the decimal
In standard scientific notation, it is preferrable to keep trailing zeros after a decimal point because those digits impart useful information about the precision of the number.

In C++, 87 and 87.000 are treated the same and the compiler will store the same value for each.

## Quiz time
### Question 1
#### Question
Convert the following numbers to scientific notation (using an e to represent the exponent) and determine how many significant digits each has (keep trailing zeros after the decimal):
a) 34.50
b) 0.004000
c) 123.005
d) 146000
e) 146000.001
f) 0.0000000008
g) 34500.0
#### Answer
a) 3.450e1 (4 significant digits)
b) 4.000e-3 (4 significant digits)
c) 1.23005e2 (6 significant digits)
d) 1.46e5 (3 significant digits). Remember, trailing zeros in a whole number with no decimal are not significant.
e) 1.46000001e5 (9 significant digits)
f) 8e-10 (1 significant digit). The correct significand is 8, not 8.0. 8.0 has two significant digits, but this number only has 1.
g) 3.45000e4 (6 significant digits). We don’t trim the trailing zeros here because the number _does_ have a decimal point. Even though the decimal point doesn’t affect the value of the number, it affects the precision, so it needs to be included in the significant. If the number had been specified as 34500, then the answer would have been 3.45e4 (3 significant digits).
