The memory of a program used is typically divided into a few segments (areas):
- Code Segment (Text Segment): Where compiled programs sit in memory. The code segment is typically read-only.
- BSS Segment (Unitialized Data Segment): Where zero-initialized global and static variables are stored.
- Data Segment (Initialized Data Segment): Where initialized global and static variables are stored.
- Heap: Where dynamically allocated variables are allocated from.
- Call Stack: Where function paramters, local variables, and other function-realted information are stored.

## The heap segment
The heap segment keeps track of memory used for dynamic memory allocation. 

The *new* operator allocated memory in the application's heap segment.
The address of the memory is passed back to the *new* operator.
```cpp
int* ptr { new int }; // ptr is assigned 4 bytes in the heap
int* array { new int[10] }; // array is assigned 40 bytes in the heap
```

Sequential memory requests do not necessarily result in sequential memory addresses being allocated.
```cpp
int* ptr1 { new int };
int* ptr2 { new int };
// ptr1 and ptr2 may not have sequential addresses
```

When dynamically allocated variables is deleted, the memory is returned to the heap and can be reassigned when future allocation requests are received.

The advantages and disadvantages of the heap:
- Allocating memory on the heap is slow.
- Allocated memory stays allocated until it is specifically deallocated or the application ends.
- Dynamically allocated memory must be accessed through a pointer. Dereferencing a pointer is slower than accessing a variable directly.
- Large arrays, structures, or classes can be allocated on the heap.

## The call stack
**Call Stack:** Keeps track of all the active functions (functions that have been called but not terminated) from the start of the program to the current point of execution. The call stack also handles allocation of all function parameters and local variables.

## The stack data structure
**Data Structure:** Programming mechanism to organize data to be used efficiently.

A stack is a container data structure that holds multiple variables. A stack is a last-in, first-out (LIFO) data structure. The last item pushed onto the stack will be the first item removed.

## The call stack segment
The call stack segment holds the memory used for the call stack.

When an application starts, the *main()* function is pushed on the call stack by the operating system. The program then begins executing.

When a function call is encountered, the function is pushed onto the call stack. When the current function ends, the function is popped off the call stack.

The stack is a fixed-size chunck of memory addresses. The items being pushed and popped are stack frames. The stack pointer keeps track of the top of the call stack.

**Stack Frame:** A stack frame keeps track of all the data associated with one function call. 

## The call stack in action
The sequence of steps that takes place when a function is called:
1.  The program encounters a function call.
2.  A stack frame is constructed and pushed on the stack. The stack frame consists of:
-   The address of the instruction beyond the function call (called the **return address**). This is how the CPU remembers where to return to after the called function exits.
-   All function arguments.
-   Memory for any local variables
-   Saved copies of any registers modified by the function that need to be restored when the function returns

3.  The CPU jumps to the function’s start point.
4.  The instructions inside of the function begin executing.

When the function terminates, the following steps happen:

1.  Registers are restored from the call stack
2.  The stack frame is popped off the stack. This frees the memory for all local variables and arguments.
3.  The return value is handled.
4.  The CPU resumes execution at the return address.

Return values can be handled in a number of different ways, depending on the computer’s architecture. Some architectures include the return value as part of the stack frame. Others use CPU registers.

## Stack overflow
The stack has limited size and can only hold a limited amount of information.

**Stack Overflow:** Occurs when all the memory in the stack has been allocated. Further allocations begin overflowing into other sections of memory.

The advantages and disadvantages of the call stack:
- Allocating memory on the stack is fast.
- Memory allocated on the stack stays in scope as long as it is on the stack. The memory is destoryed when the memory is popped of the stack.
- All memory allocated on the stack is known at compile-time. The memory can be accessed directly through a variable.
