## Object composition
**Object composition** is the process of building complex objects from simple objects is called .

Object composition allows creating complex classes by combining simpler, more easily manageable parts. 

## Types of object composition
There are 2 basic subtypes of object composition:
1. Composition
2. Aggregation

## Composition
An object and a part qualify as a composition when:
- The part (member) is part of the object (class).
- The part (member) can only belong to one object (class) at a time.
- The part (member) has its existence managed by the object (class).
- The part (member) does not known about the existence of the object (class).

Composition relationships are part-whole relationships where the part must constitute part of the whole object.

The object is responsible for the existence of the parts. Often, the part is created when the object is created and destroyed when the object is destroyed.

There is a unidirectional relationship from the object to the part. In other words, the part does not know about the existence of the whole.

The parts of an object composition can be singular or multiplicative.

Composition models a *part-of* relationship.
```cpp
class Fraction
{
private:
	int m_numerator;
	int m_denominator;

public:
	Fraction(int numerator=0, int denominator=1)
		: m_numerator{ numerator }, m_denominator{ denominator }
	{
	}
};
```

## Implementing composition
Composition can be implemented as structs/classes with normal data members. 

In general, if a class can use composition, the class should use composition.

## Variants on the composition theme
A composition can defere creation of some parts until they are needed.

A composition can opt to use a part that has been given to it as input rather than create the part itself.

A composition can delegate detruction of its part to some other object (e.g. a garbage collection routine).

A composition should manage its parts without the uer of the composition needing to manage anything.

## Composition and class
Benefits of using composition:
- Each class is kept simple, straightforward, and performs 1 task.
- Each class is self-contained and reusable.
- The whole's class can let its class member do the hard work and focus on coordinating the  data flow between the members.

