## Quiz time
### Question 1
#### Question
Write function prototypes for the following cases. Use const if/when necessary.
a) A function named max() that takes two doubles and returns the larger of the two.
b) A function named swap() that swaps two integers.
c) A function named getLargestElement() that takes a dynamically allocated array of integers and returns the largest number in such a way that the caller can change the value of the element returned (don’t forget the length parameter).
#### Answer
a) 
```cpp
double max(double a, double b);
```
b)
```cpp
void swap(int& a, int& b);
```
c)
```cpp
int& getLargestElement(int* arr, int length);
```

### Question 2
#### Question
What’s wrong with these programs?
a)
```cpp
int& doSomething()
{
    int array[]{ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 };
    return array[3];
}
```
b)
```cpp
int sumTo(int value)
{
    return value + sumTo(value - 1);
}
```
c)
```cpp
float divide(float x, float y)
{
    return x / y;
}

double divide(float x, float y)
{
    return x / y;
}
```
d)
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    int array[100000000]{};

    for (auto x: array)
        std::cout << x << ' ';

    std::cout << '\n';

    return 0;
}
```
e)
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main(int argc, char* argv[])
{
    int age{ argv[1] };
    std::cout << "The user's age is " << age << '\n';

    return 0;
}
```
#### Answer
a) Returning a dangling reference. The returned referenced element will point to an invalid value becaue the array will have decayed at the end of the function scope.

b) The function has no termination condition. The recursive function call will execute infinitely until the stack overflows.

c) The two functions are not distinct. THey have the same name and parameter types.

d) Stack overflow. The array is too large to be allocated on the stack.

e) argv\[1\] may not exist. If it does, arg[] is a string argument, and can’t be converted to an integer via assignment.

### Question 3
#### Question
The best algorithm for determining whether a value exists in a sorted array is called binary search.

Binary search works as follows:

-   Look at the center element of the array (if the array has an even number of elements, round down).
-   If the center element is greater than the target element, discard the top half of the array (or recurse on the bottom half)
-   If the center element is less than the target element, discard the bottom half of the array (or recurse on the top half).
-   If the center element equals the target element, return the index of the center element.
-   If you discard the entire array without finding the target element, return a sentinel that represents “not found” (in this case, we’ll use -1, since it’s an invalid array index).

Because we can throw out half of the array with each iteration, this algorithm is very fast. Even with an array of a million elements, it only takes at most 20 iterations to determine whether a value exists in the array or not! However, it only works on sorted arrays.

Modifying an array (e.g. discarding half the elements in an array) is expensive, so typically we do not modify the array. Instead, we use two integers (min and max) to hold the indices of the minimum and maximum elements of the array that we’re interested in examining.

Let’s look at a sample of how this algorithm works, given an array { 3, 6, 7, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24 }, and a target value of 7. At first, min = 0, max = 8, because we’re searching the whole array (the array is length 9, so the index of the last element is 8).

-   Pass 1) We calculate the midpoint of min (0) and max (8), which is 4. Element #4 has value 12, which is larger than our target value. Because the array is sorted, we know that all elements with index equal to or greater than the midpoint (4) must be too large. So we leave min alone, and set max to 3.
-   Pass 2) We calculate the midpoint of min (0) and max (3), which is 1. Element #1 has value 6, which is smaller than our target value. Because the array is sorted, we know that all elements with index equal to or lesser than the midpoint (1) must be too small. So we set min to 2, and leave max alone.
-   Pass 3) We calculate the midpoint of min (2) and max (3), which is 2. Element #2 has value 7, which is our target value. So we return 2.

Given the following code:
```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <iterator>

// array is the array to search over.
// target is the value we're trying to determine exists or not.
// min is the index of the lower bounds of the array we're searching.
// max is the index of the upper bounds of the array we're searching.
// binarySearch() should return the index of the target element if the target is found, -1 otherwise
int binarySearch(const int* array, int target, int min, int max)
{

}

int main()
{
    constexpr int array[]{ 3, 6, 8, 12, 14, 17, 20, 21, 26, 32, 36, 37, 42, 44, 48 };

    // We're going to test a bunch of values to see if they produce the expected results
    constexpr int numTestValues{ 9 };
    // Here are the test values
    constexpr int testValues[numTestValues]{ 0, 3, 12, 13, 22, 26, 43, 44, 49 };
    // And here are the expected results for each value
    int expectedValues[numTestValues]{ -1, 0, 3, -1, -1, 8, -1, 13, -1 };

    // Loop through all of the test values
    for (int count{ 0 }; count < numTestValues; ++count)
    {
        // See if our test value is in the array
        int index{ binarySearch(array, testValues[count], 0, static_cast<int>(std::size(array)) - 1) };
        // If it matches our expected value, then great!
        if (index == expectedValues[count])
             std::cout << "test value " << testValues[count] << " passed!\n";
        else // otherwise, our binarySearch() function must be broken
             std::cout << "test value " << testValues[count] << " failed.  There's something wrong with your code!\n";
    }

    return 0;
}
```
a) Write an iterative version of the binarySearch function.
b) Write a recursive version of the binarySearch function.
#### Answer