**Exception specifications** are a language mechanism that was originally designed to document what kind of exceptions a function might throw as part of a function specification. 

While most exception specifications have now been deprecated or removed, the *noexcept* specifiers was added as a replacement.

## The noexcept specifier
All functions are classified as either *non-throwing* or *potientally throwing*.

A **non-throwing function** is a function that promises to not throw exceptions that are visible to the caller.

A **potientally throwing function** is a function that may throw exceptions that are visible to the caller.

Non-throwing functions are defined using the **no except** keyword in the function declaration.

```cpp
void doSomething() noexcept; // this function is specified as non-throwing
```

*noexcept* functions are a contractual promise and not a promise enforced by the compiler. Any exception handling bug that would cause the noexcept function to break its contract will result in the termination of the program.

## The noexcept specifier with a boolean parameter
The *noexcept* specifiers has an optional Boolean parameter. 

*noexcept(true)* means that the function is non-throwing.

*noexcept(false)* means that the function is potentially throwing.

The parameter is used in template functions to allow the template function to be dynamically created as non-throwing or potentially throwing based on the parameterized value.

## Which functions are non-throwing and potentially-throwing
Functions that are implicitly non-throwing:
- Destructors.
Functions that are non-throwing by default when implicitly-declared/defaulted:
- Constructors: default, copy, move.
- Assignments: copy, move.
- Comparison operators.

If any of the non-throwing functions call another function that is potentially throwing, the non-throwing functions is treated as potentially throwing.

Functions that are potentially throwing:
- Normal functions.
- User-defind constructors.
- User-defined operators.

## The noexcept operator
The noexcept operator can also be used inside functions. 

The noexcept operator takes an expression as an argument, and returns true or false depending on if the compiler thinks the function will throw an exception or not. 

The noexcept operator is checked statically at compile-time, and doesn’t actually evaluate the input expression.

The noexcept operator can be used to conditionally execute code depending on whether the code is potentially throwing or not. 

The noexcept operator is necessary to fulfill certain exception safety guarantees.

## Exception safety guarantees

An **exception safety guarantee** is a contractual guideline about how functions/class will behave when a n exception occurs.

There are 4 levels of exception safety:
1. No guarantee.
	- When an exception is thrown, there are no guarantees about what will happen.
	- E.G.: Class is left in an unusable state.
2. Basic guarantee.
	- When an exception is thrown, no memory is leaked, the object is in a usable state, but the program may be left in a modified state.
3. Strong guarantee.
	- When an exception is thrown, no memory is leaked and the program state is unchanged.
	- The function that throws the exception must either completely succeed or have no side effects when the function fails.
	- If a failure occurs after modifying something, the function rolls back any changes to allow the program to return to the pre-failure state.
4. No throw/fail
	- The function will always succeed (no-fail) or fail without throwing an exception (no throw).
	- No throw:
		- The function will return an error code or ignore the problem. 
		- Required during stack unwinding when an exception is already being handled.
		- E.G.: Destructors, memory deallocation/cleanup functions, functions that higher-level no-throw functiosn must call.
	- No fail:
		- The function will always succeed in what it tries to do.
		- Stronger form of no-throw.
		- E.G.: move constructors, move assignment, swap functions, clean/erase/reset functions on containers, operations on std::unique_ptr, functions that higher-level no-fail functions must call.

## When to use noexcept
By default, most functions are potentially throwing. If a function calls another function that is potentially throwing, the function is also potentially throwing.

Reasons to mark functions as non-throwing:
- Non-throwing functions can be safely called from functions that are not exception-safe (e.g.: destructors).
- Functions that are noexcept can enable compiler optimizations.
- Knowing a function is noexcept can produce more efficient implementations. 

The standard library has a policy to use *noexcept* only on functions that must not throw or fail. The standard library does no mark functions that are potentially throwing but that do not throw as *noexcept*.

There are 2 places where functions should be *noexcept*:
1. Constructors and overloaded assignment operators that are no-throw.
2. Functions that want to express a no-throw or fail-guarantee to be called from other no-except functions or functions where exceptions cannot occur.


