## Static member variables
Static member variables are shared by all objects of a class.
```cpp
#include <iostream>

class Something
{
public:
    static int s_value;
};

int Something::s_value{ 1 };

int main()
{
    Something first;
    Something second;

    first.s_value = 2;

    std::cout << first.s_value << '\n'; //2
    std::cout << second.s_value << '\n'; //2
    return 0;
}
```

## Static members are not associated with class objects
Static members exist even if no objects of the class have been instantiated. 

Static members are created when the program starts and destroyed when the program ends.

It is better to think of static members as belonging to the class and not to the objcts of the class.

Static member variables can be accessed directly using the class name and scope resoultion operator.
```cpp
#include <iostream>

class Something
{
public:
    static int s_value; // declares the static member variable
};

int Something::s_value{ 1 }; // defines the static member variable (we'll discuss this section below)

int main()
{
    // note: we're not instantiating any objects of type Something

    Something::s_value = 2;
    std::cout << Something::s_value << '\n';
    return 0;
}
```

###### Best practice
Access static members by class name (using the scope resolution operator) rather than through an object of the class (using the member selection operator).

## Defining and initializing static member variables
When declaring a static member variable, the compiler knows about the existence of a static member variable but not actually defining it.

Static member variables must be explicitly defined in the global scope outside the class.
```cpp
int Something::s_value{ 1 }; // defines the static member variable
```

Static member definitions are not subject to access controls. A static member can be defined and initialized when the member is declared as private/protected in the class.

When a class is defined in a header file, the static member definition is placed in the associated code file for the class.

When a class is defined in a code file, the static member definition is placed directly underneath the class.

Do not put static member definitions in a header because, if the header file is included more than once, the static member will be defined more than once which will cause a linker error.

## Inline initialization of static member variables
When a static member is a const integral type or a const enum, the static member can be initialized inside the class definition. 
```cpp
class Whatever
{
public:
    static const int s_value{ 4 }; // a static const int can be declared and initialized directly
};
```

When a static member is a constexpr, the static member can be initialized inside the class definition.
```cpp
#include <array>

class Whatever
{
public:
    static constexpr double s_value{ 2.2 }; // ok
    static constexpr std::array<int, 3> s_array{ 1, 2, 3 }; // this even works for classes that support constexpr initialization
};
```

In C++17, non-const static members can be initialized in the class definition using the *inline* keyword.
```cpp
class Whatever
{
public:
    static inline int s_value{ 4 }; // a static inline int can be declared and initialized directly (C++17)
};
```

###### Best practice
Prefer initializing static constexpr members at the point of definition.  
Prefer making static non-constexpr members *inline* and initializing them at the point of definition.