## Defining member functions outside the class definition
```cpp
class Date
{
private:
    int m_year;
    int m_month;
    int m_day;

public:
    Date(int year, int month, int day);

    void SetDate(int year, int month, int day);

    int getYear() { return m_year; }
    int getMonth() { return m_month; }
    int getDay()  { return m_day; }
};

// Date constructor
Date::Date(int year, int month, int day)
{
    SetDate(year, month, day);
}

// Date member function
void Date::SetDate(int year, int month, int day)
{
    m_month = month;
    m_day = day;
    m_year = year;
}
```

```cpp
class Calc
{
private:
    int m_value = 0;

public:
    Calc(int value=0);

    Calc& add(int value);
    Calc& sub(int value);
    Calc& mult(int value);

    int getValue() { return m_value; }
};

Calc::Calc(int value): m_value{value}
{
}

Calc& Calc::add(int value)
{
    m_value += value;
    return *this;
}

Calc& Calc::sub(int value)
{
    m_value -= value;
    return *this;
}

Calc& Calc::mult(int value)
{
    m_value *= value;
    return *this;
}
```

## Putting class definitions in a header file
Class definitions can be put in header files to facilitate reuse in multiple files or multiple projects.
```cpp
#ifndef DATE_H
#define DATE_H

class Date
{
private:
    int m_year;
    int m_month;
    int m_day;

public:
    Date(int year, int month, int day);

    void SetDate(int year, int month, int day);

    int getYear() { return m_year; }
    int getMonth() { return m_month; }
    int getDay()  { return m_day; }
};

#endif
```

```cpp
#include "Date.h"

// Date constructor
Date::Date(int year, int month, int day)
{
    SetDate(year, month, day);
}

// Date member function
void Date::SetDate(int year, int month, int day)
{
    m_month = month;
    m_day = day;
    m_year = year;
}
```

Any header/code file that wants to use the Date class only needs to include the header file. 

## Doesn't defining a class in a header file violate the one-definition rule?
A header file that has proper header guards stops a class definition from being included more than once into the same file.

Types are exempt from the part of the one-definition rule that states that a thing can only have one definition per program.

## Doesn't defining member functions in the header violate the one-definition rule?
It depends.

Member functions defined inside the class definition are considered inline. Inline functions are exempt from the one-definition per program part of the one-definition rule. 

Member functions defined outside the class definition are treated like normal functions and are subject to the one definition rule. Member functions defined outside the class definition should be defined in code files. One exception is template functions which are implicitly inline.

## What should be defined in the header file vs the code file and what inside the class definition and outside?
Putting all member function definitions into the header file inside the class will compile. However, the class definition is cluttered up. Changing anything about the code in the header file will make any part of the code using the class definition need to be recompiled.

For clases used in only 1 file that are not generally reusable, define them directly in the single .cpp file they are used in.

For classes used in multiple files, define them in a .h file that has the same name as the class.

Trivial member function (e.g.: trivial constructors, trivial destructors, access functions, ...) can be defined inside the class.

Non-trivial member functions are defined in a .cpp file that thas the same name as the class.

## Default parameters
Default parameters for member functions should be declared in the class definition in the header file where the default parameters can be seen by whomever includes the header.

## Libraries 
Separating the class definition and class implementation is very common for libraries.

Most 3rd-party libraries provide only header with a precompiled library file. It is faster to link a precompiled library than to recompile it every time the library is needed. A single copy of a precompiled library can be shared by many applications whereas compiled code gets compiled into every executable that uses it.
