Operators are implemented as functions. 

By using function overloading on operator functions, operators can be defined to work with user-defined types. 

Using function overloading to overload operators is called **operator overloading**.

## Resolving overloaded operators
When evaluating an expression containing an operator, the compiler uses the following rules:
- If all of the operands are fundamental data types, the compiler will call the built-in routine if one exists. If one does not exist, the compiler will produce a compiler error.
- If any of the operands are program-defined types, the compiler looks to see whether the type has a matching overloaded operator function that it can invoke. If the compiler does not find one, the compiler tries to convert one or more of the program-defined type operands into fundamental data type so that it can match a built-in operator. If that fails, the compiler produces a compile error.

## What are the limitations on operator overloading?
Almost any existing operator can be overloaded. The exceptions are the conditional operator (?:), the sizeof operator, the scope (::) operator, the member selector operator (.), the pointer member selector (.\), the typeid operator, and the casting operators.

Cannot create new operators or rename existing operators. 

Atleast one of the operands on an overloaded operator must be a user-defined type. 

Cannot change the number of operands an operator supports. 

All operators keep their default precedence and associativity.

###### Best practice
When overloading operators, it’s best to keep the function of the operators as close to the original intent of the operators as possible.

###### Best practice
If the meaning of an overloaded operator is not clear and intuitive, use a named function instead.