## Resolving overloaded function ccalls
When a function call is made to an overloaded function, the compiler steps through a sequence of rules to determine which (if any) of the overloaded functions is the best match.

At each step, the compiler applies a bunch of different type conversions to the argument(s) in the function call. For each conversion applied, the compiler checks if any of the overloaded functions are now a match. After all the different type conversions have been applied and checked for matches, the step is done. 

The result will be one of three possible outcomes:
1. No matching functions were found. The compiler moves to the next step in the sequence.
2. This function is considered to be the best match. The matching process is now complete, and subsequent steps are not executed.
3. More than one matching function was found. The compiler will issue an ambiguous match compile error.

If the compiler reaches the end of the entire sequence without finding a match, it will generate a compile error that no matching overloaded function could be found for the function call.

## The argument matching sequence
1. The compiler tries to find an exact match. 
	1. The compiler sees if there is an overloaded function where the type of the arguments in the function call exactly matches the type of the parameters in the overloaded functions.
	2. The compiler will apply a number of *trivial conversions* to the arguments in the function call. **Trivial Conversions:** Set of specific conversion rules that modify types (without modifiying the value) to try to find a match. Matches made via the trivial conversions are considered exact matches.
2. If no exact match is found, the compiler tries to find a match by applying numeric promotion to arguments. If a match is found, the function call is resolved.
3. If no match is found via numeric promotion, the compiler tries to find a match by applying numeric conversions. If a match is found, the function call is resolved.
4.  If no match is found via numeric conversions, the compiler tried to find a match through any user-defined conversions. After applying a user-defined conversion, the compiler can apply additional implicit promotions or conversions to find a match.
5. If no match is found via user-defined conversion, the compile will look for a matching function that uses ellipsis.
6. If not matches have been found at this point, the compiler issues a compile error.

## Ambiguous matches
Non-overloaded functions will have each function call resolve to a function or the compiler will issue a compile error.

Overloaded function calls can resolve to either of the above outcomes or can cause an ambiguous match.

**Ambiguous Match:** Occurs when the compiler finds two or more functions that can match the function call. The compiler will stop matching and will issue a compile error.
```cpp
void print(unsigned int x)
{
}

void print(float y)
{
}

int main()
{
    print(0); // int can be numerically converted to unsigned int or to float
    print(3.14159); // double can be numerically converted to unsigned int or to float

    return 0;
}
```

## Resolving ambiguous matches
There are three ways to resolve ambiguous matches:
1. Define a new overloaded function that takes parameters of exactly the type that causes the ambiguous match.
2. Explicitly cast the ambiguous argument(s) to match the type of the function to call.
3. If the argument is a literal, use a literal suffix to ensure the literal is interpreted as the correct type.

## Matching functions with multiple arguments
If there are multiple arguments, the compiler applies the matching rules to each argument in turn. The function chosen is the one for which each argument matches at least as well as all the other functions, with at least one argument matching better than all the other functions. In other words, the function chosen must provide a better match than all the other candidate functions for at least one parameter, and no worse for all of the other parameters.

In the case that such a function is found, it is clearly and unambiguously the best choice. If no such function can be found, the call will be considered ambiguous (or a non-match).