**Numeric Conversions:** Type conversions taht are not covered by the numeric promotion rules. 

There are five basic types of numeric conversion:
1. Converting an integral type to another integral type.
```cpp
short s = 3; // convert int to short
long l = 3; // convert int to long
char ch = s; // convert short to char
```

2. Converting a floating point type to any other floating point type.
```cpp
float f = 3.0; // convert double to float
long double ld = 3.0; // convert double to long double
```

3.  Converting a floating point type to any integral type.
```cpp
int i = 3.5; // convert double to int
```

4. Converting an integral type to any floating point type.
```cpp
double d = 3; // convert int to double
```

5. Converting an intgeral type or floating point type to a bool.
```cpp
bool b1 = 3; // convert int to bool
bool b2 = 3.0; // convert double to bool
```

## Narrowing conversions
**Narrowing Conversion:** Numeric conversion that may result in loss of  data.

Narrowing conversions include:
- Floating point type to integral type.
- Wider floating point type to a narrower floating point type unless the value being converted is constexpr and is in range of the destination type (even if the narrower type does not have the precision to store the whole number).
- Integral type to a floating point type unles the value being converted is constexpr and after integral promotion will fit into the destination type.
- Wider integral type to a narrower integral type unless the value being converted is constexpr and after integral promotion will fit into the destination type.

## More on numeric conversions
Converting a value into a type whose range does not support the value will lead unexpected results.
```cpp
int main()
{
    int i{ 30000 };
    char c = i; // chars have range -128 to 127

    std::cout << static_cast<int>(c);

    return 0;
}
```

Converting from a larger integral or floating point type to a smaller type from the same family will work if the value fits in the range of the smaller type.
```cpp
int i{ 2 };
short s = i; // convert from int to short
std::cout << s << '\n';

double d{ 0.1234 };
float f = d;
std::cout << f << '\n';
```
```cpp
float f = 0.123456789; // double value 0.123456789 has 9 significant digits, but float can only support about 7
std::cout << std::setprecision(9) << f << '\n'; // std::setprecision defined in iomanip header
```

Converting from an integer to a floating point number works if the value fits within the range of the floating point type.
```cpp
int i{ 10 };
float f = i;
std::cout << f; //10
```

Converting from a floating point to an integer works if the value fits within the range of the integer but any fractional values are lost.
```cpp
int i = 3.5;
std::cout << i << '\n'; //3
```