## Static local variables
Use the *static* keyword on locla variables to change their duration from *automatic duration* to *static duration*.

Static local variables that are constexpr or zero-initialized are created at program startup. Static local variables with non-constexpr initializers are created the first time the variable definition is encountered. Static local variables that are not explicitly initialized are zero-initialized by default.

```cpp
#include <iostream>

void incrementAndPrint()
{
    int value{ 1 }; // automatic duration by default
    ++value;
    std::cout << value << '\n';
} // value is destroyed here

int main()
{
    incrementAndPrint(); //2
    incrementAndPrint(); //2
    incrementAndPrint(); //2

    return 0;
}
```

```cpp
#include <iostream>

void incrementAndPrint()
{
    int value{ 1 }; // automatic duration by default
    ++value;
    std::cout << value << '\n';
} // value is destroyed here

int main()
{
    incrementAndPrint(); //2
    incrementAndPrint(); //3
    incrementAndPrint(); //4

    return 0;
}
```

###### Convention
Prefix static local variables with "s\__".

## Static local constants
Static local variables can be made const or constexpr.

A use case would be a when a const value is necessary but creating the value  is expensive. By declaring it as a static local constant, the value is only created once and reused in subsequent calls. 

###### Quiz time
### Question 1
#### Question
What effect does using keyword `static` have on a global variable? What effect does it have on a local variable?
#### Answer
The *static* keyword causes gloal variables to have internal linkage. The *static* keyword is necessary to make non-const global variables have internal linkage. The keyword is unnecessary for const or constexpr global variables as they have internal linkage by default.
The *static* keyword causes local variables to have static duration. Static duration is when a variable is created at program startup and destroyed when the program ends.