The value of global variables can be changed by any function that is called and there is no easy way to know that it will happen.
Global variables make a program less modular and less flexible. A function that utilizes nothing but its parameters has no side effects.
Avoid using global variables for important "decision-point" variables.

## The initialization order problem of global variables
Initialization of static variables occurs as part of program startup (before execution of main()).
The initialization occurs in two phases:
1. *Static Initialization*. Global variables with constexpr initializers are initialized to their values. Global variables without initializers are zero-initialized.
2. *Dynamic Initialization*. Global variables with non-constexpr initializers are initialized.
Within a single file, global variables are generally initialized in order of definition (there are exceptions). Therefore, the user must be careful to not have variables dependent on the initialization value of other variables that won't be initialized until later.
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int initx();  // forward declaration
int inity();  // forward declaration

int g_x{ initx() }; // g_x is initialized first
int g_y{ inity() };

int initx()
{
    return g_y; // g_y isn't initialized when this is called
}

int inity()
{
    return 5;
}

int main()
{
    std::cout << g_x << ' ' << g_y << '\n';
}
```

Across different files, the order of initialization is not defined. Given two files, a.cpp and b.cpp, either could have its global variables initialized first. This means that if the variables in a.cpp are dependent upon the values in b.cpp, there’s a 50% chance that those variables won’t be initialized yet.

###### Warning
Dynamic initialization of global variables causes alot of problems. Avoid dynamic initialization whenever possible.

## Good reasons to use non-const global variables
In most cases, there are other ways to solve the problem that avoids the use of non-const global variables.
Global variables should meet the following criteria:
1. There should only be one of the thing the variable represents in the program.
2. The global should be used in almost all places in the program.

## How to use global variables safely
Prefix all non-namespaced global variables with *g* or *g\__*.
Encapsulate the global variable. Make the global variable only accessible (and modifiable) from within the file it is declared. Make the global variable acessible in other files with an accessor method.

```cpp
namespace constants
{
    constexpr double gravity { 9.8 }; // has internal linkage, is accessible only by this file
}

double getGravity() // this function can be exported to other files to access the global outside of this file
{
    // We could add logic here if needed later
    // or change the implementation transparently to the callers
    return constants::gravity;
}
```

When writing a method that uses the global variable, pass the variable as an argument to the function.