## Variable assignment
**Copy Assignment:** Giving a variable a value after variable definition. Copies the value on the right-hand side of the *=* operator to the variable on the left-hand side of the operator.

```cpp
int width; // define an integer variable named width
width = 5; // copy assignment of value 5 into variable width

// variable width now has value 5
```


## Initialization
**Initialization:** Giving a variable an initial value during variable definition. 

```cpp
int a; // no initializer
int b = 5; // initializer after equals sign
int c( 6 ); // initializer in parenthesis
int d { 7 }; // initializer in braces
```

## Default initialization
**Default Initialization:** Providing no initialization to a variable.

```cpp
int a; // no initializer
```

## Copy initialization
**Copy Initialization:** Providing an initializer, after an equals sign, to a variable.

```cpp
int width = 5; // copy initialization of value 5 into variable width
```

## Direct initialization 
**Direct Initialization:** Providing an initializer, in between parentheses, to a variable.
```cpp
int width( 5 ); // direct initialization of value 5 into variable width
```

## Brace initialization 
**Direct Initialization:** Providing an initializer, in between curly braces, to a variable.

```cpp
int width { 5 }; // direct brace initialization of value 5 into variable width (preferred)
int height = { 6 }; // copy brace initialization of value 6 into variable height
int depth {}; // value initialization (see next section)
```

Brace initialization disallows narrowing conversions. If a variable is brace initialized using a value that the variable cannot safely hold, an error is produced.

###### Best practice
Favor initialization using braces whenever possible.

## Value initialization and zero initialization
**Value Initialization:** Initializing a variable with empty braces.

**Zero Initialization:** When value initialization initializes a variable to zero.

## Initialize your variables
Initialize variables upon creation.

## Quiz time
### Question 1
#### Question
What is the difference between initialization and assignment?
#### Answer
Initialization gives a variable an initial value at the point when it is created. Assignment gives a variable a value at some point after the variable is created.

### Question 2
#### Question
What form of initialization should you be using?
#### Answer
Direct brace initialization.
