**Halt:** Flow control statement that terminates the program. 

Halts are implemented as functions. 

## The std::exit() function
Function that causes the program to terminate normally.

**Normal Termination:** When program exists in an expected manner. Normal termination does not imply that the program was successful.

The std::exit() function performs cleanup:
- Objects with static storage duration are destroyed,
- If files were used by the program, miscellaneous file cleanup is done.

Control is returned to the OS with the argument passed to std:exit() used as the status code.

## Calling std::exit() explicitly
std::exit() can be called explicitly to halt the program before the program would normally terminate.

```cpp
#include <cstdlib> // for std::exit()
#include <iostream>

void cleanup()
{
    // code here to do any kind of cleanup required
    std::cout << "cleanup!\n";
}

int main()
{
    std::cout << 1 << '\n';
    cleanup();

    std::exit(0); // terminate and return status code 0 to operating system

    // The following statements never execute
    std::cout << 2 << '\n';

    return 0;
}
```

###### Warning
The std::exit() function does not clean up local variables in the current function nor up the call stack.

## std::atexit
The std::atexit() function allows the user to specify a function that will automatically be called on program termination via std::exit().

Any function registered by std::atexit() is called. 

The function registered by std::atexit() must take no parameters and no return value.

Can register multiple functions to std::atexit(). The last registered function will be called first (reverse order).

```cpp
#include <cstdlib> // for std::exit()
#include <iostream>

void cleanup()
{
    // code here to do any kind of cleanup required
    std::cout << "cleanup!\n";
}

int main()
{
    // register cleanup() to be called automatically when std::exit() is called
    std::atexit(cleanup); // note: we use cleanup rather than cleanup() since we're not making a function call to cleanup() right now

    std::cout << 1 << '\n';

    std::exit(0); // terminate and return status code 0 to operating system

    // The following statements never execute
    std::cout << 2 << '\n';

    return 0;
}
```

## std::abort and std::terminate
The std::abort() functions causes a program to terminate abnormally.
**Abnormal Termination:** Program has a runtime error and the program cannot continue to run. 

The std:abort() function does not do any cleanup.

The std::terminate() function is used with exceptions. The std::terminate() function is called implicitely when an exception is not handled.

By default, std::terminate() calls std::abort().


