## Preconditions, invariants, and postconditions
**Precondition:** Condition that must always be true prior to the execution of a component.

**Invariant:** Condiiton that must be true while a component is executing.

**Postcondition:** Condition that must be true after the executing of a component.

## Assertions 
**Assertion:** Expression that is true unless there is a bug in the program. 

When an assertion evaluates to true, the assertion statement does nothing. When an assertion evaluates to false, an error message is displayed and the program is terminated via [std::abort](7.11%20-%20Halts.md).

Runtime assertions are implemented via the *assert* preprocessor macro.

```cpp
#include <cassert> // for assert()
#include <cmath> // for std::sqrt
#include <iostream>

double calculateTimeUntilObjectHitsGround(double initialHeight, double gravity)
{
  assert(gravity > 0.0); // The object won't reach the ground unless there is positive gravity.

  if (initialHeight <= 0.0)
  {
    // The object is already on the ground. Or buried.
    return 0.0;
  }

  return std::sqrt((2.0 * initialHeight) / gravity);
}

int main()
{
  std::cout << "Took " << calculateTimeUntilObjectHitsGround(100.0, -9.8) << " second(s)\n";

  return 0;
}
```

## Making assert statements more descriptive
Add a string literal joined by a logical AND.
```cpp
assert(found && "Car could not be found in database");
```

## Assertions vs error handling
The purpose of an assertion is to catch programming errors by documenting things that should never occur. If the thing occurs, the user made a programming mistake and the error can be identified and fixed.

The purpose of error handling is to gracefully handle cases that could occur.

## NDEBUG
Assertions should be disabled in production code.
Assertions can be disabled by defining the NDEBUG macro.

## static_assert
**static_assert:** Assertion that is checked at compile-time.

*static_assert* is a keyword.

```cpp
static_assert(condition, diagnostic_message)
```