Computers are generally incapable of generating truly randon numbers. Modern programs typically simualte randomness using an algorithm.

## Algorithms and state
**Algorithm:** Finite sequence of instructions that can be followed to solve a problem or produce a result.

**Stateful Algorithm:** Algorithm that retains information across calls. 

**Stateless Algorithm:** Algorithm that does not retain information across calls. 

**Deterministic Algorithm:** Algorithm that, given a particular input, will always produce the same output.

## Pseudo-random number generators (PRNGs)
**Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG):** Algorithm that generates a sequence of numbers whose properties simulate a sequence of random numbers.


## Seeding a PRNG
The sequence of numbers generated by a PRNG is not random at all.
**Random Seed:** An initial value that that initializes the state of a PRNG.

All the values that a PRNG produces are deterministically calculated from the seed value(s).

## What makes a good PRNG
The PRNG should generate each number with approximately the same probability.

The method by which the next number in the sequence is generated should not be predictable.

The PRNG should have good dimensional distribution of numbers. The PRNG should return numbers across the entire range of possible result randomly.

The PRNG should have high period (length of the sequence before the sequence starts repeating itself) for all seeds.

The PRNG dhould be efficient. 

## Randomization in C++
C++'s randomization capabilities are accessed via the *\<random\>* header.
| Type Name                | Family                                 | Period  | State Size* | Performance | Quality | Should it be used |
|--------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------|-------------|-------------|---------|-------------------|
| minstd_rand minstd_rand0 | Linear congruential generator          | 2^31    | 4 bytes     | Bad         | Awful   | No                |
| mt19937 mt19937_64       | Mersenne twister                       | 2^19937 | 2500 bytes  | Decent      | Decent  | Probably          |
| ranlux24 ranlux48        | Subtract and carry                     | 10^171  | 96 bytes    | Awful       | Good    | No                |
| knuth_b                  | Shuffled linear congruential generator | 2^31    | 1028 bytes  | Awful       | Bad     | No                |
| default_random_engine    | Any of above (implementation defined)  | Varies  | Varies      | ?           | ?       | No^2              |
| rand()                   | Linear congruential generator          | 2^31    | 4 bytes     | Bad         | Awful   | No^no             |

## Why Mersenne Twister
For most applications, Mersenne twister is fine in terms of performance and quality. However, Mersenne Twister results can be predicted after the 624th generated numbers. 

For cases where higher quality random results, faster results or non-predictaiblity is required, third-party libraries are preferrable. 